Reconfigure step (#2099)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2024-03-01-config-entry-reconfigure-step.md

---
author: G Johansson
authorURL: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
title: "Config Entries can now provide a reconfigure step"
---

> As of Home Assistant Core 2024.4 config entries can now be reconfigured by adding a `reconfigure` step in their config flows.s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Home Assistant Core 2024.4 config entries can now be reconfigured by adding a `reconfigure` step in their config flows.
```

> As of Home Assistant Core 2024.4 integrations can add a `reconfigure` step in their config entries to allow a user to reconfigure necessary config entry data.

Reviewer 2: It's the config flow which has a reconfigure step:
```suggestion
As of Home Assistant Core 2024.4 integrations can add a `reconfigure` step in their config flows to allow a user to reconfigure necessary config entry data.
```

We could also rephrase it to say config entries can be recconfigured.

This is not to replace optional configuration (`OptionsFlow`) but instead to allow the user to change setup configuration after a config entry has been created.

### Integrations updating existing config entries

> Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer allowed, integrations should be migrated to implement the `reconfigure` step.

Reviewer: What should happen when we detect the user entering new data for an existing entry? What should happen with the updates parameter for the abort already configured method?

> Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer allowed, integrations should be migrated to implement the `reconfigure` step.

Author: I'm not sure exactly what you mean.
I think it's the norm to abort with "config entry already exist" so does this need further clarification here?

> Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer allowed, integrations should be migrated to implement the `reconfigure` step.

Reviewer: There's an `updates` parameter for `_abort_if_unique_id_configured`. Should that parameter no longer be used? Should we deprecate that parameter if it's not allowed to use anymore?

> Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer allowed, integrations should be migrated to implement the `reconfigure` step.

Author: Good point. Didn't consider this (as I completely forgot that it existed).

It's quite some integrations which has this implemented but almost all of them are updating only the `host` ip so should be somewhat easy to replace with a `reconfigure` step.
I think we should go for this implementation in general e.g. deprecate the `updates` parameter of `_abort_if...` which can be done in a follow-up PR shortly if agreed.

> Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer allowed, integrations should be migrated to implement the `reconfigure` step.

Reviewer 2: `_abort_if_unique_id_configured` should still be called with updates from discovery flows, so that parameter is still valid.
I don't think many integrations intentionally do updates from user flows, and I think those who do should stop doing that and instead implement a reconfigure flow. Maybe the abort message should be updated to hint at the reconfigure step?

> Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer needed by implementing the `reconfigure` step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some integrations implements a reconfiguration option by updating an existing config entry if a matching config entry is being created by the user. This is no longer allowed, integrations should be migrated to implement the `reconfigure` step.
```

### Reconfiguration vs. Reauthentication

> The `reconfigure` step does not replace a `reauth` step and they have different purpose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `reconfigure` step does not replace a `reauth` step and they have different purposes.
```

Reauthentication should be started automatically by the integration in the case a login / token / etc. is invalidated so the user has an option to adjust those settings.

> Reconfiguration is started by the user from the config entry options menu and should be implemented to update config entry data which are not optional for the integration to work but is also not used for authentication purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reconfiguration is started by the user from the config entry options menu and should be implemented to update config entry data which is not optional for the integration to work but is also not used for authentication purposes.
```

Reviewer: Why shouldn't it be authentication data?

Author: It could probably be in certain cases so I'll rephrase this.

### Example

> Examples could be to change latitude and longitude of a `WeatherEntity` if you have a moving home, Change of communication port of a local device etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples could be to change latitude and longitude of a `WeatherEntity` when moving between homes, change of communication port of a local device etc.
```

Author: I meant a mobile home e.g. caravan or something as such. Moving between homes seems odd?

Reviewer: I was thinking about when you move to a new house, ie a new location. A caravan is also a possibility.

To implement the `reconfigure` step include it in your config flow as:

```python
import voluptuous as vol

class ExampleConfigFlow(ConfigFlow, domain=DOMAIN):
    """Config flow for Example integration."""

>     async def async_step_reconfigure(self, user_input):

Reviewer: Please add type annotations.
